update docs with out-of-service taint information (#70)
medik8s/docs: recover_affected_workloads.md

In kubernetes world there is no concept of rescheduling. When pods are bounded to a
node they run till termination. In a case of hardware failure, or some other
resource problem that hangs the OS, there is no built-in solution to migrate or
restart existing pods.

If the node misbehaves, and processes can not run anymore the control
plane will start counting down. It will either be the kubelet process which doesn't
report status to the control plane (see [node_status_update_frequency][]) or
the containers themselves will fail/crash and be marked as `phase: failed`.
Nodes status conditions, set by the node-controller in the control plane, will
reflect the current status and how long the node has been in that state.
For example, in the case where the node fails to update its status to the
masters the node condition will be set to `type:Ready status:Unknown`.

In order to gain the workload back, reschedule it and start it all over, the control plane

> needs to know that the running node is gone and there are two strategies that accomplish

Reviewer: > `that the running node is gone`

well, the node resource still exists.
maybe: `that the workloads's pod is not running anymore`?

and may start a new sentence afterwards: `... anymore. There are two...`

that:

> - `ResourceDeletion`, which will remove the pods on the node (rather than removing the

Reviewer: I would not mention node deletion at all anymore... 🤔

Author: However, it is still an option. I can rephrase the whole thing making clearer that `ResourceDeletion` not-suggested/old option, instead than suggesting `OutOfServiceTaint`

Reviewer: I mean NODE deletion, that latter part of the list item ("rather than...")

node object) recovering the workloads faster.

> - [`OutOfServiceTaint`][], which triggers pods on the node to be forcefully deleted if

Reviewer: maybe add somehow that this is a new core k8s feature named non graceful node shutdown and link to this blog? https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/08/16/kubernetes-1-28-non-graceful-node-shutdown-ga/

In kubernetes world there is no concept of rescheduling. When pods are bounded to a
node they run till termination. In a case of hardware failure, or some other

> resource problem that hangs the OS, there is no built-in solution to migrate or

Reviewer: s/hangs/freezes?

Author: quick search: it seems that `hangs` is more used when the problem _can_ be restored. Change accepted :)

restart existing pods.

If the node misbehaves, and processes can not run anymore the control
plane will start counting down. It will either be the kubelet process which doesn't
report status to the control plane (see [node_status_update_frequency][]) or
the containers themselves will fail/crash and be marked as `phase: failed`.
Nodes status conditions, set by the node-controller in the control plane, will
reflect the current status and how long the node has been in that state.
For example, in the case where the node fails to update its status to the
masters the node condition will be set to `type:Ready status:Unknown`.

In order to gain the workload back, reschedule it and start it all over, the control plane

> needs to know that the the workloads's pod is not running anymore. There are two

Reviewer: I think it should either be `workload's pod` or `workloads' pods` 🤔 
Since we use singular workload in the line above, the former fits better

strategies to accomplish that:

- [`OutOfServiceTaint`][] - new core Kubernetes feature named [Non-Graceful Node
  Shutdown], it triggers pods on the node to be forcefully deleted if there are no
  matching tolerations on the pods. Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will

>   be detached, and new pods will be created successfully on a different running node. This

Reviewer: how do you know that pod creation will be successful?

Author: good point

  is the recommended strategy.

> - `ResourceDeletion`, which will remove the pods on the node. This strategy is still supported for

Reviewer 2: It seems odd to me that the bullet begins with a comma (`,`). Maybe a hyphen/colon (`-/:`) would seem better here.

Reviewer 2: Looking on other pages under Medik8s website, and we usually use hyphens:

- https://www.medik8s.io/about_us/
- https://www.medik8s.io/remediation/remediation/
- https://www.medik8s.io/remediation/fence-agents-remediation/fence-agents-remediation/

Author: I'll also rephrase this one like FAR readme (s/remove/delete/)

> - `ResourceDeletion` - it deletes the pods and detaches associated volumes on the node. This strategy

Reviewer: this sounds like detaching volumes is something we explicitly do, but we don't (anymore)...?

masters the node condition will be set to `type:Ready status:Unknown`.

In order to gain the workload back, reschedule it and start it all over, the

> control plane needs to know that the running node is gone and there are two ways to do it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
control plane needs to know that the running node is gone and there are two ways for Non-graceful node shutdown handling[2]:
```

[2] https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/node-shutdown/#non-graceful-node-shutdown

Reviewer: this suggested change does not make sense, "non-graceful node shutdown" is the name of the feature which uses the out of service taint for dealing with nodes which are shut down but the control plane not knowing it yet

> - deleting the node object, which will trigger [scheduling the pods for deletion][2]

Reviewer 3: > deleting the node object

Good job on updating the doc, but I think we are confusing here couple of different strategies.
- Node deletion (which was completely removed), this strategy used to delete the Node.
- ResourceDeletion - which explicitly deletes the pods of the remediated node
- OutOfServiceTaint - which implicitly causes the node's resource removal in a more gracefully way by placing a taint on the node.

ATM only the later 2 are being used.
SNR also has a third strategy`Automatic`  which basically let's the let's the remediator choose how to perform the remediation, which is something which might be worth mentioning as well.

"Under the hood" `Automatic`   just dynamically chooses OutOfServiceTaint strategy in case it's supported, otherwise it chooses ResourceDeletion, but I don't think we want to document this part.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure `Automatic` is relevant here. IMHO it could be mentioned in a different subsection or as a note on remediation strategy that is supported in  SNR (and in the future in Medik8s when FAR will support it as well).

> - adding an [`out-of-service` taint][4] on the Node, which triggers pods on the node

Reviewer 2: The link number should be 3 as it right after 2.

Author: I think it would be just easier to use implicit reference links

Reviewer 2: SGTM I can't recall why it was used this way. NP for changing it from my POV as long we are consistent with the rest of the website pages.

Author: the other pages can be modified in followup PR

to be forcefully deleted if there are no matching tolerations on the pods.
Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will be detached, and new pods

> will be created successfully on a different running node. This is the "right" way to do it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will be created successfully on a different running node. This is the recommended way to do it.
```

Currently, the "deletion strategy" is still supported by our [fence-agents-remediation](https://github.com/medik8s/fence-agents-remediation)

> operator (FAR), while both FAR and [self-node-remediation](/remediation/self-node-remediation/self-node-remediation/) (SNR) operator support the `out-of-service` taint.

Reviewer 2: Over here it would be nice to add the automatic strategy while changing `the "deletion strategy"` -> `the "resource deletion strategy"`

[1]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/
[2]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#pod-garbage-collection
[3]: https://libvirt.org/formatdomain.html#watchdog-device

> [4]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/#node-kubernetes-io-out-of-service

Reviewer 2: I think their order should be switched because of my [above comment](https://github.com/medik8s/docs/pull/70/files#r1597584040)
